---
layout: single
title:  "'No-Ops' is the reality and it shouldn’t be feared!"
date:   2017-12-30
---

The nebulous DevOps has meant many things to many different companies.  The reality is DevOps is still a bimodal construct that strives to merge two legacy organizations, Development and Operations, into a single undefined unit.  Even is this is done efficiently it still excludes other departments, i.e., Security, Q/A, etc.  Ultimately we should strive for Development, with the absence of any operational or other departmental dependencies in a “No Ops” model.  If obtained a development project would only concern itself with the actual development of code with the base requirements of scale, deployment, security and handled elsewhere.  

In order to accomplish this an organization needs to build agile tools that are driven by requirements that feed deployments.  If this is accomplished developers will have the options they need for deploying solutions that have already been vetted from a security perspective and optimized by an operations view point.  

So how can organizations obtain this construct?  Organizations have taken many approaches to solve this, varying from standalone DevOps teams, delegating overall solutions to Enterprise Architect organizations, smaller teams made up of developers and operators, etc.  All of these approaches can have success but in my experience they all still share a significant flaw in their approach.  They are centered on the organization of people who set designated plans that tend to ignore the technologies that ultimately drive the overall solutions.

As we know technology is changing at a quicker pace than most organizations can evolve.  So the key to achieving “no-ops” and efficiency is in modularity of your design.  If you take the approach that the tools currently available to your needs are going to be obsolete or at best very inefficient in the near future you start to build you environments to be inherently flexible.  

We have seen this adoption at the highest level with public cloud usage, specifically in the consumption of compute from an IaaS perspective.  This gives great flexibility from multiple aspects to an organization, limiting CAPEX, bursting capabilities, etc.  But the allure of IaaS has started a trend to recreate on-premise solutions in the cloud without the notion of “disposability” at the heart of the solutions.  This leads to limited options for evolving your solutions for the next generation of tools.

If you look at IaaS simply as a tool/service that will also be ephemeral in nature you can exploit the value of the cloud while still optimizing your operations.  This is true for all of the tools that you adopt for your “no-ops” world.  API based solutions, like IaaS, should be the cornerstone of your tools.  OpenShift based on Kubernetes is completely API based and provides that modularity that is essential for current and next generation solutions.  




